alright let's take a look at the guitar
scale finder features there's also some
cordon arpeggio features that i'll
demonstrate over on the guitar arpeggios
finder page but first of all at the very
top you're going to see a tuning so
right now by default this is set to
standard tuning but you can actually
choose from some different alternate
tunings you know drop D or double drop d
but for night right now I'm just going
to keep that in standard tuning then
also at the top for the different scales
you're going to have the option to show
exactly what notes something is by name
the intervals which is how the notes
relate to a major scale a major scale is
going to have the numbers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
and then every other scale is going to
be an alteration of that and i'm going
to show you that here in just a second
you also have the option of showing the
scales either in a right-handed format
or four lefties there's left-handed
format for this demonstration I'm just
going to keep it in right-handed format
which is kind of the same perspective as
a chord chart so you're going to see the
line over on the far left the vertical
line is the sixth string and the line on
the very far right is going to be your
first string the thinnest string highest
sounding string all right now let's take
a look at how you might use the the
scale finding feature here the first
thing is you see these major headings
here one says cords and one says scales
and even though this says cords what you
see right here would be the root of the
scale of the the main note of the scale
so we still need to use this first
column over here and I'm going to set
this to a C and I'm going to go back to
my notes so you see the actual notes of
a C major scale and right now the way
that this is set it's showing all of the
notes of
C major scale all over the neck up to
the 12th fret now you know it's great to
get an overall view of all of the notes
that are in a particular scale but
that's not extremely useful when trying
to learn some scale patterns so now what
I'm going to do is I'm going to go down
to the very bottom of the scale finder
here and it says set size of scope here
on the left at the bottom left side and
what I'm going to do is I'm going to use
this just kind of click over on this
left double arrow here and I'm going to
lower that down to five the reason is
most guitars scale forms are going to be
at the most a stretch of five frets any
more than that you're just a less demand
less tick man and you'd have to be some
doing some big stretches or shifts and
so what we're looking for right here are
just some kind of usable scale forms and
so the next thing is just to the right
of that there's a scope fret position
right now there's a one that means
starting the first fret and if I kind of
click that up it just kind of takes
scale positions going on up the neck but
I'm going to start with that that first
position where notes are going to be in
the first fret now so you could you
could play this particular scale form
but one thing to take a look at in this
particular one is I have a c-note here
OOP despaired all right I have a C note
here that would be on the 5th fret of
the 3rd string and then there's also a
c-note here on the second string at the
first fret that's actually the exact
same note so if you were you were
playing this as a scale form you would
want to choose one option or the other
so it kind of gives you two small
variations of that particular scale form
now again I could switch this over to
two intervals and see you know I just
see these numbers you know four or five
six one is the root of the scale that's
that's the sea so AC major scale is one
two three four five six seven that's
major scales are always the notes are
the numbers one two three four five six
and seven now I'm going to go and move
up one fret so I'm going to now move so
the lowest note would be on the second
fret so now I get a a different kind of
scale pattern that is C major that I can
play and this time there isn't any
doubling up so I don't have to choose
one note or the other up to the 3rd fret
you know another scale position so so
they're going on up there were you know
I got another situation where I've got
you know a G on one string and then the
very next string there's a G so I'd want
to choose one or the other but this is a
great way to find some different
fingerings that you might not have
thought of for some different scales and
this also this has major and you know
harmonic minor melodic minor there's you
know a ton of different well you must
learn your super Locrian that's if
you're a jazzer you know super low
Korean is actually used quite a bit so
even though it sounds like a funny mode
it is a it is a common jazz scale that's
used so there's just a ton of them here
to do that also in the details section
right here you see the name of the scale
and then the different intervals and so
in this case this you know see super
Locrian mode here it says the intervals
are one flat 2 flat 3 3 flat 5 sharp 5
and a flat 7 and what that means in is a
c-major scale was just one two three
four five
so a flat two is just a half step or one
fret lower than where the second note of
the major scale would be so a c-major
scale was a C and a da1 into to this see
super Locrian is one flat too so it bc
and then ad flat alright so i hope that
gives you an idea of how you might be
able to use this scale finder to help
kind of broaden your different types of
scales that you might play just give you
some different ideas of some ways to
play the scales up and down the neck